# Lane Detection using Python and OpenCV

<br/>

## Description
This project demonstrates lane detection in images and videos using Python and OpenCV. Lane detection is a crucial component of autonomous vehicle navigation and advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS). This repository provides an implementation of a basic lane detection algorithm.

<br/>

## Algorithm Overview.
Lane detection algorithm follows these key steps:
1. Read the input image or video frame.
2. Convert the image to grayscale.
3. Apply Gaussian blur to reduce noise.
4. Use the Canny edge detection to identify edges in the image.
5. Define a region of interest (ROI) to focus on the road area.
6. Apply the Hough Line Transform to detect lines in the ROI.
7. Group lines into left and right lanes.
8. Calculate the average slope and intercept for each lane.
9. Extrapolate lane lines to cover the full height of the image.
10. Draw the detected lanes on the original image.

<br/>

## Set-up and run 
### 1. Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure that you have the following prerequisites installed on your system:

- **Python 3.x**
- **OpenCV (cv2)**
- **Numpy**
- **Matplotlib**

You can install the required libraries using pip, the Python package manager:

```bash
pip install opencv-python numpy matplotlib
```

### 2. Installation
Clone or download this GitHub repository to your local machine. 

To clone the repository, open your terminal and use the following command:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/aqib-qadir/Lane-Detection.git
cd Lane-Detection
```

### 3. Usage
Replace input_video.mp4 with the path to your video file.
Open a terminal window and navigate to the project directory where you cloned the repository.
Run the lane detection script on a video file, and get the output video.

<br/>

## Result
The results of the lane detection can be seen in the output video generated by the script. You can tune the parameters to optimize the lane detection for your specific use case. 
